- Hi, I'm Enguerran Loos.
I'm the founder of CaseCoach.
I'm a former manager and
interviewer with McKinsey.
In this video, I will
be interviewed by Rob,
another McKinsey alumnus.
We'll be going through a
case similar to the ones
you'll be asked to solve in
an interview at McKinsey,
Bain, BCG, or another top consulting firm.
Rob will interrupt from time
to time to share his feedback.
Let's get started!
- Well, that's all of my questions
with regard to your background.
- Yep.
- There'll be a bit of time at the end
if you have questions for me as well,
but I thought it would
be good to go into a case
at this stage
- Okay.
and just try and solve a mock
business problem as it were.
- Sounds good.
- So this one, let me give
you an overview of the client
and the problem before we get started.
With this one our client is
a company called FlashFash.
- Okay.
- They're a U.S.
multinational apparel company
with revenue of around 25 billion dollars.
- Sorry, 25 billion dollars?
- 25 billion dollars.
And they own some of the
best known mid-market brands
in North America and the West.
Generally, they sell 70 percent of their products
through their own network
of corporate-owned stores,
so their own stores basically
and then the remaining
30 percent they sell through
multi-brand retailers.
- So it's a bit like Gap
or Zara or something.
- Exactly that kind of style.
But in addition to what I described,
they operate a relatively
distinctive business model
where instead of committing
large percentages of
their volume out-front ahead
of a season for production,
they commit a small amount,
and then use customer feedback
and their relatively
flexible production processes
to then ramp up products
and replenish stores weekly
in response to what they
see happening in the market.
- So they're super fast.
- They're super fast.
Actually, it only takes 15 days
for them to go from design to production.
- Oh wow.
- And so they can observe
what's happening with customer feedback
and then respond to that.
As part of this client's growth strategy,
FlashFash are considering
the acquisition of a company
called LaMode.
- Yup.
- Now, LaMode are the leading
independent retailer of
luxury brands online and
they count for around
three percent of all online
apparel sales in North America.
- Sorry, three percent
of online apparel sales
in North America.
- That's right.
- And you said they're an independent...
- Yes so they're an independent
retailer of luxury fashion
- So it's not their own brand,
they're basically selling
other people's brand.
- Mostly, although they
have recently launched
their own brand,
- Okay.
- which comprises around five
percent of their revenue.
- Okay.
- But their model is, in addition
to being a luxury player,
they operate a curation model,
so they curate products from
the best brands they can find
and then present a large
collection of around 30,000 items,
all kind of in that
luxury high-end setting.
- Okay so basically
FlashFash is more mid-market,
but LaMode is really top-end.
- That's right.
- So it's like, you know
1,000 dollar handbag,
and that kind of thing.
- That's exactly it.
- I mean for, I guess clothes.
- Yes, yes.
- Men and women?
- Yeah, both menswear and womenswear.
And so FlashFash have
just asked us whether
they should acquire LaMode.
- Okay.
Sounds good.
So that's really the question,
should we acquire or not?
- [Rob] That's right.
- And do you know why they
would like to acquire it,
what's the idea behind it?
- Yeah so they have a
growth strategy right now,
they're obviously a
reasonably large player,
- Yeah.
- they're looking to
grow to a larger scale.
They're looking basically for
longterm sustainable profits
and returns to shareholders,
- Yeah.
- and they see acquisition as
one potential lever for that.
- Okay, so they feel their
more traditional business probably
not growing as fast as LaMode and
that could be a way to
accelerate their growth.
- Yeah, that's exactly it.
- Makes sense.
And do they want us to
look at alternatives
or should we just focus on this business?
- We should just focus
on this business for now.
- Okay, do you mind if
I take a few seconds to
put my thoughts on paper?
- Absolutely, take your time.
(mouse click)
There were a couple of good things about
this opening to the case.
First, you'll notice how the
candidate's done a good job
to really clearly specify the problem.
He's not just determined
that the candidate
is considering an acquisition,
he's asked why they're considering it.
He's asked whether this
is a binary decision,
or whether we are looking
at other acquisitions
as part of this.
He's taken a lot of care
to really clearly specify
and understand what the problem is.
Second, notice how right off the bat,
he's driving the thinking.
He's suggesting particular hypotheses,
he's making assumptions, he's
asking questions, he's probing
so right from the start
he's leading the thinking
he's showing good case leadership
and good drive to try
and solve this problem.
(mouse click)
- Okay.
- Alright.
- Okay so basically you want
us to figure out whether
FlashFash should acquire LaMode.
- Yes.
- There are three areas that
I would like to look at.
First one is I would like
to understand LaMode as a
business and its stand-alone value.
So, is it an attractive
company in general,
without any link to us.
- Right.
- Once we've figured that out,
look at synergies, because
we combine those two business
can we do more than just add them up.
- Yeah.
- Finally our capabilities.
Are we able to integrate
those two business,
do we have the skills,
the money, et cetera.
- [Rob] Okay.
- If I go to the value
of LaMode as a business,
I think the one question is
what's the market growth of
this kind of online apparel luxury market.
- [Rob] Mhm.
- I would assume
that there's probably
a lot of growth in Asia
or emerging countries where
you have a bigger middle class,
- [Rob] Yes.
- That can afford those type of clothes.
So I would like to check that.
And once we've done that, I
also want to understand whether
that business model is a
winning business model.
Is the company equipped to maintain or
grow its share over time,
is it going to face competition from
the online stores of the luxury retailers,
is Chanel and all these
others, are they gonna
distribute directly online,
rather than going through
people like LaMode, I think
that's an important question.
- [Rob] Okay.
- If we figure out that actually
there's something here and
the value of the business is
below what it could get to,
given the growth of the
market and their positioning,
then that's interesting.
But we'd want to look after
that to the synergies as I said.
- What do you have in mind?
- For synergies?
- Yeah.
- Well we want to understand whether
if we combine the business,
can we accelerate our growth.
For instance, maybe we
can sell our products to
their websites and the brand and
maybe that will help us
grow our core business.
I have to say I'm a little
skeptical about this
because they have a luxury positioning,
we have a mid-market
positioning so I'm not sure
there's synergies.
There could be some
synergies in terms of costs,
because I'm sure we have
some overlapping footprint,
so I would think for instance
our online operations,
logistics, delivery,
customer service may be,
maybe there is a way to combine
those and decrease our cost.
- Right.
- So I would look in that
sort of synergies both
in customer-view and capabilities.
Here I mentioned a few ideas before,
around our skills and our know-how.
Obviously, it looks like our know-how,
FlashFash, is really about
being super quick at
manufacturing new styles.
- [Rob] Yes.
- Not sure to what extent that
we'll be helpful to LaMode.
I'm not sure basically
we're leveraging our
core capability with.
- Right, okay makes sense,
I think these all sound like
reasonable areas to explore.
- Okay.
(mouse click)
- Here the candidate's
performing very well
on each of the dimensions
that we recommend.
We've already talked
about how he's identified
the problem very well,
but if we look at the other elements,
he's divided this problem
neatly into three categories.
These are mutually exclusive,
you can solve for one of them
without overlapping with the others.
Obviously this is a very effective way
to go about solving a problem.
Next, he's encompassed
all of the core factors
that could be important here.
He's talked about
everything from synergies,
to stand-alone values, to capabilities.
He's already specified
that for this problem,
we're not looking at opportunity cost of
other acquisition options,
so really he's captured
pretty much everything
we'd need to solve the
problem at this time.
Then, he's adapted his
structure to the situation.
In some respects this is a
relatively standard framework
for solving M&A questions
but he's adapted it well
by suggesting, for example,
specific cost synergy options,
such as logistics which
would be important for any
commerce player of this type.
Then lastly, he's begun
to suggest specific
insights and ideas.
Within each of his buckets,
he's got sub-elements,
sub-drivers, and even specific
thoughts and suggestions
which can initially sign-post
us thinking even at this stage
and as with the introduction to the case,
he's again showing his
strong case leadership,
and beginning to suggest
thoughts and ideas
and suggestions of his own at this stage.
(mouse click)
Let's maybe start with one
of the areas you touched upon
in passing, I think you mentioned
Asia's a potential area to
look at and this is something
that we'd been interested
to explore as well.
Now the client believes that
there is an opportunity for
LaMode to realize a third
of its global sales in Asia,
within five years.
They believe this partly
- Sorry excuse me,
so a third of LaMode's
sales would come from Asia.
- That's the client's belief,
or at least their initial hypothesis.
- In five years, okay.
- Right.
Now, that sounds like
an aggressive number but
the reason they believe that
is partly because of the
growth rate of online
apparel in Asia, where
the overall apparel market
is expected to double
in this time frame,
and at the same time the
share of purchases made online
is expected to triple.
So really, it's a
relatively fast growth rate.
- So that means that the
online apparel market in Asia
should be multiplied by six
or five years.
- Exactly.
And so the question for
us is simply what share
of the Asia online apparel
market LaMode would need to
reach in order to
capture this opportunity.
- [Enguerran] Okay.
That makes sense.
Okay so I think, if I want to find out
our share of the Asia
online apparel market
in five years, that means I need to have
our sales in Asia in five years
and the size of the market in Asia
in five years,
which we already know that number,
is six times the size of
the market in Asia now.
So I think we need a few
more elements here.
First do we have an idea of the
sales that we would achieve?
- [Rob] Right so we know
that at the moment LaMode
is at around two billion.
- [Enguerran] Okay.
- [Rob] We believe in this
time period they can be
expected to triple.
- [Enguerran] Okay.
Okay so basically two billion
now, multiplied by three
and then divided by three
to get the Asia share.
So that's two billion for LaMode.
Do you have an idea of the
size of the market in Asia now?
- [Rob] We do, it's eight billion.
- [Enguerran] It's eight billion...
Okay, six billion today,
sorry eight billion multiplied by six,
that will be our market size in five years
so I put two billion over this,
so that's gonna be
so billion billion,
and that's gonna be one out of 24,
which is gonna be
4.2 percent, so that means
that we would need to have
a 4.2 percent share of the Asia
online market in five years.
- [Rob] Right, sounds aggressive no?
- Well yeah, because I think
you said we had three percent
of the online apparel
market in the US right now
and it looks like this is our core market
so it means not only we're gonna have to
go into Asia, which is
not our core market,
and take shares that are way
above what we currently have
in our market, so again
I'd be curious to see how
we're gonna achieve this because
that sounds extremely ambitious.
- I agree it sounds somewhat
aspirational on the face of it.
(mouse click)
This is, on the whole, a
very strong quantitative
section of the interview.
Now of course the candidate's
computed the numbers
quickly and proficiently, but
there are many other things
he's done quite well here.
Notice how he opened the
section by describing
what he's going to calculate
and how he's going to calculate it.
By laying out the approach first
he's able to show structure
he's also able to allow
the interviewer to engage and intervene if
perhaps the structure he's
setting up is not the right one.
Next, notice how he
sanity-checks his numbers
as he's going through.
He's testing them to
see if they make sense,
whether intuitively they feel right,
so you can minimize the risk
of any errors coming through.
Last, notice how he describes
not just what the answer is,
but what it means.
He thinks this answer is aggressive,
and he connects that to particular
information he's gleaned
from earlier on in the interview.
Stylistically, notice how it's also
very open and conversational.
It's tempting in these
sections of the interviews
to go away, calculate
numbers, and then come back.
But all else being equal,
you want to be doing
your calculations visibly and out loud.
This allows your interviewer
to see what you're doing,
and if nothing else it
allows them to jump in
and correct you if perhaps
you might be making a mistake,
which otherwise you would
only announce at the end.
So it's quite a useful style,
and it's effective in this instance.
(mouse click)
Okay, let's move on, so you
touched upon a couple of other
elements of your structure.
- Yeah.
- And I think one aspect
that's interesting to look at
is synergies.
- Yes, sure.
- Well you have a reasonable
amount of data on this,
and we've compiled this exhibit
with information on both,
our client and the target.
I'd like you just to
have a look at this and
let me know your thoughts
on whether overall
there seem to be potential
synergies which seem appealing
between the companies based on
the information that you have
- [Enguerran] Okay so here
we have some information
about FlashFash and LaMode.
We have the sales by geography.
And an idea of the annual growth,
we have the share of the online sales,
then we have some information
about the transaction cost,
average purchase, so that's
the average purchase of
a client, I assume?
- That's right.
And the transaction cost,
just so you know, is
a combination of fulfillment
costs, customer service
and payment processing, primarily.
- Okay, and then cost of goods sold,
okay so we understand the cost,
and then our own brand.
Okay so all merch within
ourselves come from our own brand
which is 100 percent at FlashFash of course.
Sounds good, okay so if
we look at synergies,
so the first thing is,
LaMode is really concentrated
in North America and Europe,
and pretty much absent from
Asia so again like that 2.5
percent seems even more
aggressive when you look at this
if we have zero presence at the moment.
- Yeah they're going from scratch, then.
- Yeah so I think you would
need probably to acquire an
existing business or do something else.
In any case, there is an opportunity
for FlashFash to help LaMode grow
outside of
North America and Europe definitely.
LaMode is growing faster
than FlashFash, 31 percent
against four percent
that doesn't surprise me,
it's an online business,
it's probably a growing
market, be interesting to know
whether it grows faster than the market.
But, I don't think that means that we have
particular synergies here.
Online presence...
So obviously, LaMode does
two billion online and
we do 22 percent of our business
online which actually is,
so it's above five billion.
So it's interesting because
FlashFash which is meant to
be a more traditional business
actually does two to three
times more sales online
than LaMode.
I was expecting maybe we
could gain expertise on the
online marketing et cetera
from LaMode but we're probably
as knowledgeable as them about this.
- No that's right, in
absolute sense we're doing
far greater sales online
and we have decent expertise
in that area.
- Yeah, so I'm not sure
there is something there.
What's interesting in
the transaction cost is
we can see that the average
purchase is very different.
413 dollars for LaMode, 78 dollars for FlashFash,
we're in very different markets
so that's kind of confirming
that our clients are
probably not the same.
I don't think that FlashFash
products being distributed
by LaMode makes sense,
it's just not the same
level in the market.
- Yeah.
- Cost of goods sold and transaction cost.
What's really fascinating
is LaMode's transaction cost
is 48 dollars against six for
FlashFash so it looks like,
because we're luxury online
retailer, we'll probably
give a five star service
to our clients in terms of
delivery, it must be
super fast I assume, like
free returns for a month,
customer service that is tip-top
where you can call
someone and get some help.
Makes sense?
- Absolutely, yeah.
So everything from the
packaging itself to the delivery
experience to the support
experience is really
in the premium tier.
- [Enguerran] So what's
interesting is because our cost of
goods sold is 46 percent as FlashFash
and our purchase average
is 78 dollars, it means that
in terms of margin,
we make around 40 dollars
at FlashFash on a sale?
- Yes.
- Which is less than the
transaction cost of LaMode.
So that means that even if
the clients wanted to buy
FlashFash products on the LaMode website,
if we deliver the same
quality of service, we would
basically be losing money.
- [Rob] That's right.
- So we can't really serve
the FlashFash clients profitably
with the LaMode model.
So again, something
against that ID that we can
all of a sudden distribute our products.
- Yes, are there any potential
opportunities in terms of
cost synergies between these two players?
- There might be.
There might be, I'm thinking
obviously their own brand,
that's what we do right,
I assume LaMode is
also seeing a lot of the
production of their products
and maybe we can help them
decrease their cost of goods sold
on their own brand products.
But overall when I look at this,
my conclusion is, in terms of
revenue synergies is a pretty weak case,
there might be something
in terms of international
developments, but the idea of
combining the two businesses
to distribute the price
of one in the other
doesn't seem to make a lot of sense to me.
So at this stage I would say,
on the basis of this analysis,
it's kind of confirming that
it's probably not a good
acquisition target for us.
(mouse click)
- The candidate starts this section
by kind of describing what
he sees in the exhibit.
This is useful as a means
to check his understanding,
but it also buys time.
By opening the discussion around
just what's on the exhibit,
discussing this with the
interviewer and so on,
he's able to buy himself
time to start thinking about
what the insights are in this exhibit,
which he then goes on to comment on.
When it comes to how he
describes the insights
he's able to glean from the exhibit,
you'll notice how the
candidate is not only
generating stand-alone insights
from particular data points,
but he's combining them, he's
looking for opportunities
to spot connections between
data points or comparisons,
for example, when he comments
on the absolute sales online,
that he's seen with FlashFash.
Then notice again how at
every stage the candidate
is commenting on not just
what the numbers are,
but what they mean in the context
of his emerging hypothesis
and the question he's been asked.
And yo can see throughout
that generally the candidate
is seeing that this exhibit
supports his emerging view
that this acquisition is not
going to be very compatible
from a synergies perspective.
(mouse click)
No, it's a reasonable assessment,
they have very different
structures, they operate
in quite a different way.
Okay but let's switch
gears again to look at
just a broader area.
- [Enguerran] Okay.
- So beyond potential synergies
with FlashFash which we've
looked at, what ideas do you have
to accelerate the
organic growth of LaMode?
- Accelerate the organic
growth of LaMode, okay
that's interesting because it's
already growing pretty fast.
- Yeah they're doing pretty well already.
- So, if we step back a little bit.
So LaMode is an online retailer
of fashion luxury products.
- [Rob] That's right.
- [Enguerran] Mostly
in the developed world.
So, the question is can we do more?
I think we talked about the first one is
obviously the geography,
so accelerate that
geographical footprint, is clear.
Luxury, there is a question
could we use that model,
maybe launch a different brand,
but launch a slightly less
up-market version of LaMode
and start to go much more mass market.
- So it drifts slightly in
that direction but still be
towards the premium end.
- Well I think what you
would do is, you'll probably
launch a different brand, to be honest.
You use some of the same
infrastructure, not all because
obviously the service level
is not going to be the same,
but presumably you've gained
some expertise in this
and you can imagine a slightly
less expensive copy-cat.
- Okay, makes sense.
- So that's one.
Obviously at the moment we're
doing fashion, I'm wondering
to what extent we could
penetrate other categories.
You could see how big brands like Armani,
who are fashion brands,
obviously perfume is one thing so
they do cosmetics, but now
they start doing furniture,
as well and so you could imagine
selling furniture and all
sorts of fashion accessories.
So there are some luxury
categories beyond fashion,
where I think because of our
position, could be legitimate.
- [Rob] Yes.
- And then online, at the
moment we're pure online player,
could we start having
some flagship stores?
In airports, for instance,
where we're gonna meet some of
the same clients
who buy expensive fashion,
and like the curating model
because they don't have a lot of
time so they like to be able
to go somewhere and find
some really good things.
- Right.
- So I think physical
retail is another idea.
So these are all kind
of new business ideas.
There might be another categories around
how can we do what we
already do, but better,
how can we sell more to
our existing clients,
how can we accelerate
our client acquisition.
- How might you go about doing that?
- Well I would think like,
in terms of selling more
to existing clients,
there is a lot of things
happening with data science,
we're now able to pinpoint
exactly what's the next product
that one person is gonna
be likely to wanna buy
because of their past
purchase and online behavior,
are we doing this?
In terms of acquiring new clients,
I'd love to see how our
online marketing is working,
is our advertising really spend-optimized.
Again, I think some new technology
is gonna help with that.
So here it's hard to tell
whether there's an opportunity
we'd need to look out
their current practices
but we'd wanna check
their state of the art.
- Just tell me something
to explore, I think.
(mouse click)
So this of course was a
creative thinking section
and the candidate handles it quite well.
He suggests ideas in a
number of categories,
from new product categories to
opening physical retail stores,
to simply finding ways to extract
more growth opportunities from
our current customer base.
The way he sets up these
categories is quite effective.
It can be hard to generate
ideas in a vacuum,
but if you're able to come
up with categories of ideas,
going from those to generate
specifics is relatively easy.
This provides a platform then
to generate quite creative insights,
such as perhaps moving from
purely fashion products,
through to perhaps launching
perfume or other products
using our luxury brand to help with that.
So overall it's a strong performance
on this section of the interview.
(mouse click)
Good, okay.
So look I think we've covered
a fair amount of ground.
- [Enguerran] Yup.
- There's more that
we would want to look at
if we were doing this as a
longer project but based
on what you've seen so far,
what's your overall message
to the client at this stage?
- So, I mean you've asked
us whether it makes sense
for you to acquire LaMode.
At this stage, we don't
think so, at least not
because of the existing
growth plan and synergies,
we think that the growth plan in Asia is
probably overly optimistic,
you need to capture
a 4.2 percent of share in five years,
of a market where you
have zero percent share.
Now, in terms of synergies,
we really haven't found
many revenue synergies beyond
accelerating your geographical
penetration of developing countries,
which is not a lot.
So on that front it
doesn't seem to make sense.
Now, LaMode is an interesting business.
It's growing pretty
fast, we have identified
ways to develop that franchise
beyond this immediate scope,
so you could still realize
it's a good acquisition,
just for pure financial stand-points,
and we would happily look into this.
(mouse click)
- The concluding synthesis
here is short and effective.
The candidate uses a standard
framework we've discussed
elsewhere in the materials.
He starts after reminding
us of the question
by giving the overall answer itself,
that this doesn't seem to make sense
as an acquisition target.
Next, he lists out his key
supporting points and reasons
for why this is the case.
Then last, he concludes
with some next steps.
And the idea of this might
be good as a stand-alone
acquisition, is a fair
comment to end the case on.
So again, this is a model interview,
but this performance
reflects an outstanding
overall case performance and
the rare example of a case
that's really strong across the board.
Now if we look first at
the way he develops rapport
and presence, really
this is a good example.
The candidate does a good
job of showing poise,
showing confidence and pushing
the thinking in such a way
that he comes across almost
as a consultant working
on a problem, rather than an interviewee.
So, he performs very well
when it comes to presence.
Communication, the same applies.
The candidate is very concise,
very clear, very organized
in his thinking, he uses
visuals when effective,
and this works very well
to communicate the points
he wants to convey.
Lastly, when it comes to case leadership,
I say this is really a
distinctive performance.
You'll notice how the candidate
right from the beginning
of the interview was
beginning to generate ideas
and hypotheses, beginning
to test his thinking.
At every stage, even
though this was mostly an
interviewer-led interview,
he's developing ideas
and pushing the thinking forward.
So it's a very good approach
from these characteristics.
When it comes to the more
technical aspects of the interview
this is clearly a very
strong performance too.
If we go through the list
of assessment criteria
on structuring, the candidate
performs extremely well
when it comes to going
through the ideas criteria
we've laid out in the materials.
In everything, from
identifying the problem well,
to suggesting specific insights
about how he can solve it,
the candidate is doing
a very good job here.
On numeracy I'd say it's really
a distinctive performance.
Not only is the candidate
organized and structured
in his approach, but he
simply deals with the numbers
very quickly and very accurately,
both in the specific maths
question we set early in the case
and in the exhibit exercise,
where he's combining numbers
and using them in effective ways.
On judgment and insight,
well they perhaps aren't
a ton of opportunities here
to go through conceptual
problem solving and show your
kind of qualitative analysis,
the candidate does show
fantastic judgment in connecting
information he finds in one
part of the case, to other parts
of the case, which makes this
a very much above the bar
performance on judgment and insight.
On creative thinking, this
is a distinctive performance.
The candidate displays a
wide range of ideas in five
categories on the specific question we ask
on creative thinking, and
many of them are non-obvious,
so he's displaying a good
ability to come up with ideas
and generate just new ideas and insights.
Lastly I'd say, it's
really distinctive too
when it comes to synthesis.
The candidate synthesizes
well throughout the case,
but in the conclusion
itself, he's both concise
and structured, and he's able
to communicate the insight
in a way that seems very
compelling and catches the essence
of the problem he's managed to solve.
- Thank you for watching till the end.
If you found this video helpful,
don't forget to give it a thumbs-up.
Now, if you'd like to get more free video
and prep material, including
the pdf solution of FlashFash,
just follow the link below to
sign up to our mailing list.